#On Continuing

##Working It Out

Recently a friend of mine started working out. Although this in itself wasn't anything out of the ordinary, I really admired his reasoning behind taking this plunge. He told me that his goal was to work out everyday for the next five years. When I heard this I was in complete disbelief: it's hard for me to follow through on even a month-long commitment. "There's no way he can do this." I thought to myself. 

After a few months, I saw my friend again and he explained how he had been succesful in working out every single day since we had last talked. I couldn't believe it so I asked him how he had accomplished this seemingly impossible task. He simply looked at me, got down on the floor, and proceeded to crank out twenty pushups. "I try to go to the gym whenever I can but if I can't I'm ok with doing any type of exercise. The main point is to continue exercising for five years, no matter how I do it."

I'm inspired by this attitude of honoring longevity and realizing that getting good at something takes effort, focus, and time. I've compiled a simple list of things to remember when undertaking long-term activities specifically with the goal of growth in mind:

1. Start small - Most people begin an activity by imagining themselves exalted to the higest level of mastery - think the aspiring guitarist who believes they will be able to play like Hendrix in a few months. Instead focus on *completing* something small but achievable and build from there. 
2. Lower the barrier to entry - In order to make sure that you complete your activity every day be sure to lower expectations. My friend quickly devised an impromptu workout that he could do anywhere/anytime with no equipment necessary. Because of this, having to go to the gym was no longer an excuse or hurdle for exercise. 
3. Don't burn out - adjustments should be made to keep the activity exciting. If it is too stressful or taking too much time cut back. Pushing yourself is great but make sure that you don't let this drive sabotage the whole experience. Make sure to mix up the practice as well. Repetition is the key to improvement but also one of the biggest contributors to boredom/apathy. 
4. Measure yourself - The old saying says "what gets measured gets built". There is something magical about tracking your activity and the satisfaction gained from seeing progress. Without measurement, "progress" can become arbitrary or, worse, imaginary. 
5. Talk about it - Verbalizing your efforts does two things: it holds you accountable and also primes your mind for action. 
6. Positivity - My friend once looked at me while we were working out and said "We could be the strongest people alive right now!". We both laughed but it honestly did help us keep going. Make it fun. 
