---
title: "My Wife Gambled Away $2.0MM and I'm Happy"
date: 2013-01-23
categories:
    - sparkwagon
hidden: false
---

**From Chaplain Reflections**

How would you feel if your wife gambled away your life savings and you sat
penniless in a state run nursing home? Would it bother you that as you lay on
the operating table, she was gambling away your last $250,000?

Mr. O is an amazing man. He handed me a leather portfolio filled with cancelled
checks and court orders…..proof of a life of tremendous wealth that was
squandered by his spouse at the felt tables of Las Vegas.

“Everything I touched turned to gold,” he told me. “I tried everything. I
started doing real estate and then I would open a travel agency. I didn't matter
what I tried, it became successful,” he stated without any tone of pride. He
asked me to look through his meticulously maintained records, convinced I would
need proof to believe his words.

Mr. O had never seemed like the type that would make up stories, but I obliged
and sorted through his papers. After seeing the first cancelled check from the
Harris bank for $600,000, I started to feel a little upset. Here was a 90 year
old man sitting in his stained boxers and t-shirt, in a place where the day's
excitement revolves around rumbling down to other end of the floor in his
wheelchair. The W House was not one of the nicer nursing homes. Mr. O could be
in more comfortable surroundings if his wife hadn't selfishly gambled away
everything.

As it turns out, his wife had been ”the best nurse, the head nurse at a hospital
in Las Vegas.” They had lived in Vegas for 40 years. But I was incredibly
curious about why a man would keep records of such significant loss?

“Mr. O, aren't you upset that your wife lost all that money?” I queried.

“No, no. What would I do with it? I have everything that I could need.” He
replied, smiling with a genuine joy.

“But you worked hard for that money and then she lost it just like that,” I
stated, snapping my fingers. “How could you not be somewhat upset?”

“Well, I loved my wife and she liked to gamble. She had fun doing it. In fact, I
was having heart surgery and while I was in the hospital she gambled away the
last money we had. Surprisingly, I survived and she died 6 months later from
throat cancer.” He recounted.

I wanted to point out that if he still had that money he wouldn't be crammed
into this tiny nursing facility room with a roommate that never moves or speaks
(or opens his eyes). But, my job is to try to bring some positive understanding
to the lives of those there, not create issues. If he didn't mind, than I
shouldn't mind.

We spent 40 minutes going through all the records in his portfolio. Some were
financial, some were newspaper clippings of big events in his life. He was
thrilled to share, and I found him more remarkable with every chapter we
uncovered. At the end of our time I wanted to ask one more question.

“Mr. O, if you could do it over again would you ask your wife not to gamble with
your money?” I asked.

“No, I didn't mind. I had everything I could possibly need, so I was fine with
her gambling,” he confirmed, his hands out to the side like he was holding a
giant ball.

As I was preparing to leave, Mr. O pointed to a picture of him and his wife on
the wall. The black and white picture was from 1963. There was a foot or two
between them as they posed, looking happily into the distance.

“That's a fantastic picture. You both look really happy,” I commented.

And as I walked to my car, I knew that Mr. O was truly blessed. He is a man that
has lived unselfishly. Clearly his wife's happiness was a high priority. I
suspect he was very generous with all that were close to him. So he has no
regrets, wouldn't do anything differently if he could do it all over again.

Perhaps that is one way to define joy.

**Job 8:21 God will fill your mouth with laughter and your lips with shouts of
joy.**
